Okay, so welcome to one
another exciting video
in the authentication section.
And in this particular video
we are going to cover the concept
of authorization.
So now at this particular point we
already know what is authentication.
Authentication means
that the server knows who are you.
That means you are authenticated.
And there are two ways
of authentication.
Number one, there's a session
based authentication where you
give a session ID or a temporary
ID to a user, where the data
about that ID is stored on the
server, maybe in a database,
maybe in your memory.
And that is where you let
the user authenticate it.
And on the other hand you had
a stateless version of
the authentication that was JSON web
tokens where you actually store
the information about the user
inside the token itself.
So that was authentication
that whether you are
authenticated or not.
Does server recognize you?
Do server know who are you?
That is authentication.
Now let's jump onto the concept
of authorization.
Authorization is basically the next
step of the authentication.
In order to be authorized
to do something, you have to be
first of all authenticated.
There is no authorization
possible without authentication.
So first step is something
that we have already done.
Authorization means if
you have access
to a particular resource or not.
So let's imagine that this is
a user, that is U1, okay?
And this is a user,
let's say U2, okay?
Now in on your server, okay,
on your server, let's say
you have multiple routes, right?
You have a lot of data
on the back end.
Now let's say you want makes
a request to get some piece of data.
Okay?
So let's say that this is basically
a data about all the payments.
So let's say you were building some
financial application and this is
the data about all the payments.
Okay?
So all the payment data lives here.
Now technically, if you imagine
this thing, payments data
is a critical data, right?
You don't want to share this
particular thing publicly or
something, something like that.
So now you have to build
a mechanism that if you want,
hey user one, are you really
allowed to access this data?
If so, you have to return
this data to the user.
But if not, see if he does not have
that particular access, you can just
return return an unauthorized error.
So number one thing is that
number one, see this U1 user has
to be authenticated.
That means server
knows who the U1 is.
Then the next step comes
that do you have the permission
to access this particular resource?
If so, you can return this data.
If not, just return
an error response.
So how can you achieve
this particular thing?
It's very simple.
I mean there are a lot of techniques
to implement authorization,
but let's cover
the simplest one, that is
just attach a, role to this user.
So let's say if U1
has a role, which is admin, right?
Very simple.
And you too has a role that
is, let's say, simple user.
Now if the role is admin,
you return this particular data,
but if the role is not admin, you
are not going to return this data.
And what is this role?
At the end of the day, this
role is nothing but just
a value in the database.
So in the users table, I
can extend that table
to have one more entry, I.e.
role, where default value can
be user, and we can promote
special users to be admin.
And then we can even store
this particular thing
in the user's token, right?
You have JWT tokens,
which are signed tokens.
No one can change it.
So in the JWT token I can just write
role admin, and then I can check
that if you are an admin,
only and only then you are allowed
to access this particular resource.
So basically this is how
the authorization happens.
So this is the basic concept
behind the authorization.
So what I would like you to do is
pause the video right here.
Implement.
Try to implement this particular
thing on your own before
jumping onto the next video.
Because in the next video I will
be coding this particular thing.
I'll be refactoring the whole
code, but I would like you
to give it a try first.
So let's meet you
in the next particular video.